Among the many advancements seen in network security, encryption and hashing have been the core principles of additional security modules. The secure hash algorithm with a digest size of 256 bits, or the SHA 256 algorithm, is one of the most widely used hash algorithms. While there are other variants, SHA 256 has been at the forefront of real-world applications.

Firstly looking towards, what is hashing -
Hashing is the process of scrambling raw information to the extent that it cannot reproduce it back to its original form. It takes a piece of information and passes it through a function that performs mathematical operations on the plaintext. This function is called the hash function, and the output is called the hash value/digest. 
There are two primary applications of hashing:
1] Password Hashes: In most website servers, it converts user passwords into a hash value before being stored on the server. It compares the hash value re-calculated during login to the one stored in the database for validation.
2] Integrity Verification: When it uploads a file to a website, it also shared its hash as a bundle. When a user downloads it, it can recalculate the hash and compare it to establish data integrity.

Now SHA-265 ,SHA 256 is a part of the SHA 2 family of algorithms, where SHA stands for Secure Hash Algorithm
Some of the standout features of the SHA algorithm are as follows:
Message Length: The length of the cleartext should be less than 264 bits. The size needs to be in the comparison area to keep the digest as random as possible.
Digest Length: The length of the hash digest should be 256 bits in SHA 256 algorithm, 512 bits in SHA-512, and so on. Bigger digests usually suggest significantly more calculations at the cost of speed and space.
Irreversible: By design, all hash functions such as the SHA 256 are irreversible. You should neither get a plaintext when you have the digest beforehand nor should the digest provide its original value when you pass it through the hash function again.
The SHA algorithm is being used in a lot of places, some of which are as follows:
Digital Signature Verification: Digital signatures follow asymmetric encryption methodology to verify the authenticity of a document/file. Hash algorithms like SHA 256 go a long way in ensuring the verification of the signature.
Password Hashing: As discussed above, websites store user passwords in a hashed format for two benefits. It helps foster a sense of privacy, and it lessens the load on the central database since all the digests are of similar size.
SSL Handshake: The SSL handshake is a crucial segment of the web browsing sessions, and it’s done using SHA functions. It consists of your web browsers and the web servers agreeing on encryption keys and hashing authentication to prepare a secure connection.
Integrity Checks: As discussed above, verifying file integrity has been using variants like SHA 256 algorithm and the MD5 algorithm. It helps maintain the full value functionality of files and makes sure they were not altered in transit.

